[RHACS] ROX-25421: Document troubleshooting for secured cluster upgrader (#80296)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/troubleshooting-cluster-upgrader.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * upgrade/upgrade-roxctl.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="troubleshooting_upgrader_{context}"]

> = Troubleshooting Cluster Upgrader

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Troubleshooting the cluster upgrader
```
Typically we don't capitalize pieces or components of the software (with a few exceptions, like "Central, Sensor") so I think not capitalized here is the way to go.

[role="_abstract"]

> This section describes potential problems and their solutions when using legacy installation method for the secured cluster and enabling the automated updates.

Author: Unfortunately, I have no access to the page with style rules :(

The errors described here can be found in the clusters view when the upgrader fails.

> 

Reviewer: add this above every heading per [guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-in-module-files):

[id="headingname_{context}"]

For example:

[id="upgrader-missing-permissions_{context}"]

Author: Done in 903310e71e47a36039766c05c92823e256187862 (will be squashed)

== Upgrader is missing permissions

.Symptom

The following error is displayed in the cluster page:

> [quote]

Reviewer: Use different formatting per [OpenShift guidelines:](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#system-messages)

[source,text]
----
Upgrader failed to execute PreflightStage of the roll-forward workflow: executing stage "Run preflight checks": preflight check "Kubernetes authorization" reported errors. This usually means that access is denied. Have you configured this Secured Cluster for automatically receiving upgrades?"
----

Author: Done in 50ee5ad655e7c208ca3f7755c9614a32fe3c14d4 (will be squashed)

Author: I followed the instructions but the preview looks strange - see the "- text" at the bottom. What could we do about that?
![Screenshot 2024-09-17 at 10 18 01](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8ddf63b8-54d3-4aa2-9e1a-f93a1722cc2e)

Author: Found it, I was using 4 underscores instead of 4 hyphens to mark the block.

____
Upgrader failed to execute PreflightStage of the roll-forward workflow: executing stage "Run preflight checks": preflight check "Kubernetes authorization" reported errors. This usually means that access is denied. Have you configured this Secured Cluster for automatically receiving upgrades?"
____

.Procedure

> * Ensure that the bundle for Secured Cluster was generated with future upgrades enabled: "_Cluster is configured to allow future automatic upgrades_" before clicking on "_Download YAML file and keys_".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the bundle for the secured cluster was generated with future upgrades enabled before clicking *Download YAML file and keys*.
```
Is the "future upgrades enabled" part an option they check in the GUI? I don't think we need to repeat the label here.

GUI options and labels are bold, not italics.

> * Ensure that the bundle for Secured Cluster was generated with enabled option for future upgrades: "_Cluster is configured to allow future automatic upgrades_" before clicking on "_Download YAML file and keys_".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the bundle for Secured Cluster was generated with future upgrades enabled: "_Cluster is configured to allow future automatic upgrades_" before clicking on "_Download YAML file and keys_".
```
I can't put my finger on what's with this sentence, but it feels a bit rough. My rendition doesn't feel much better, but maybe we can find something :sweat_smile:

* If possible, remove that secured cluster and generate a new bundle making sure that future upgrades are enabled.

> * If recreation of the cluster is not desired or possible, the following steps can be taken alternatively:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you cannot re-create the cluster, you can take these actions:
```
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-prefixes

> ** Ensure that Service Account `sensor-upgrader` exists in the same namespace as Sensor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Ensure that the service account `sensor-upgrader` exists in the same namespace as Sensor.
```

> ** Ensure that a ClusterRoleBinding exists (default name: `<namespace>:upgrade-sensors`) that grants the `cluster-admin` ClusterRole to the `sensor-upgrader` Service Account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Ensure that a ClusterRoleBinding exists (default name: `<namespace>:upgrade-sensors`) that grants the `cluster-admin` ClusterRole to the `sensor-upgrader` service account.
```

> == Upgrader cannot start due to missing image

Reviewer: needs anchor ID (see previous comment)

Author: Done in 903310e71e47a36039766c05c92823e256187862 (will be squashed)

.Symptom

The following error is displayed in the cluster page:

> [quote]

Reviewer: change formatting (see previous comment)

Author: Done in 50ee5ad655e7c208ca3f7755c9614a32fe3c14d4 (will be squashed)

____
"Upgrade initialization error: The upgrader pods have trouble pulling the new image: Error pulling image: (...) (<image_reference:tag>: not found)"
____

.Procedure

* Ensure that the Secured Cluster can access the registry and pull the image `<image_reference:tag>`.

> * Ensure that the image pull secrets are configured correctly in the Secured Cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the image pull secrets are configured correctly in the secured cluster.
```

> == Upgrader cannot start due to an unknown reason

Reviewer: needs anchor ID

Author: Done in 903310e71e47a36039766c05c92823e256187862 (will be squashed)

.Symptom

The following error is displayed in the cluster page:

> [quote]

Reviewer: change formatting

Author: Done in 35b51ebb9727858bfb6e58580d0280d562444054

____
"Upgrade initialization error: Pod terminated: (Error)"
____

.Procedure

> * Ensure that the upgrader has enough permissions for accessing the cluster objects - see "_Upgrader is missing permissions_".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure that the upgrader has enough permissions for accessing the cluster objects. For more information, see "Upgrader is missing permissions".
```

* Check the upgrader logs for more insights.

=== Obtaining upgrader logs

The logs can be accessed by running the following command:
[source,terminal,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ kubectl -n <namespace> logs deploy/sensor-upgrader <1>
----

> <1> For `_<namespace>_`, specify the namespace in which the Sensor is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> For `_<namespace>_`, specify the namespace in which Sensor is running.
```

> Usually, the upgrader deployment is only running in the cluster for a short time while doing the upgrades. It is cleaned up afterwards, so accessing its logs may require proper timing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, the upgrader deployment is only running in the cluster for a short time while doing the upgrades. It is removed later, so accessing its logs can require proper timing.
```
[IBM Style](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#m) prohibits using "may"

Author: I would really love to look into those rules... my entire adult life I was following the style from "Bugs in Writing" book and it looks that either I forgot some things or there are differences between those two sources.

> When accessing the logs after `Upgrade initialization error`, the cleanup of the `sensor-upgrader` is not executed and the logs of the failed deployment may be accessed .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When accessing the logs after an upgrade initialization error, the cleanup of the `sensor-upgrader` is not executed and you can access the logs of the failed deployment.
```
(use active voice if possible)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * upgrade/upgrade-roxctl.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="troubleshooting-upgrader_{context}"]
= Troubleshooting the cluster upgrader

[role="_abstract"]
If you encounter problems when using the legacy installation method for the secured cluster and enabling the automated updates, you can try troubleshooting the problem.
The following errors can be found in the clusters view when the upgrader fails.

[id="upgrader-missing-permissions_{context}"]
== Upgrader is missing permissions

.Symptom

The following error is displayed in the cluster page:

[source,text]
----
Upgrader failed to execute PreflightStage of the roll-forward workflow: executing stage "Run preflight checks": preflight check "Kubernetes authorization" reported errors. This usually means that access is denied. Have you configured this Secured Cluster for automatically receiving upgrades?"
----

.Procedure

> * Ensure that the bundle for the secured cluster was generated with future upgrades enabled before clicking *Download YAML file and keys*.

Author: The idea was to do them in sequence. If that implies using the numbered list, I will change it.

> * Ensure that the bundle for the secured cluster was generated with future upgrades enabled before clicking *Download YAML file and keys*.

Author: Addressed in [4e728b9](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/80296/commits/4e728b98048ecf0193f1be5e9139f35b72b87f21)
